>>>>[THEME MUSIC] And I think
many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory with our
special guest tonight-- Michael
Heiser, biblical
expert-- on prophecy.
If you missed our first program
with him, on the Old Testament,
make sure you go
back and look at it
because you really
need that foundation
as you watch this program on
the New Testament, Michael,
welcome back.
>>MICHAEL HEISER: Thank you
>>NOORY: What exactly
is the New Testament?
>>HEISER: The New
Testament is a collection
of 27 books, again in our canon,
our Protestant Bible, and not
coincidentally in Catholic
collections, as well.
So there's a lot more
agreement here than there
is with Old Testament.
So you have stories
of the life of Jesus.
You have the story
of the early church.
You have letters that
were passed around
between the apostles in
churches or between churches.
And then of course,
finally you get the Book
of Revelation, which is--
>>NOORY: Which is the scary one.
>>HEISER: --that everybody
gravitates to that one.
>>NOORY: Now, the Old
Testament was pre-Jesus.
>>HEISER: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: The New Testament
is Jesus and onward.
>>HEISER: Right,
and a good bit of it
is-- you don't really
have anything written
contemporaneous to Jesus.
It's shortly after.
Again, in Christian theology the
death, burial and Resurrection
is the catalyst chain
of events that triggers
the birth of the early church.
And then the apostles
start preaching about what
they'd seen and heard.
And eventually, they
look at themselves
and say, hey, we're
getting older here.
We ought to write
this stuff down.
And that's when you
get the Gospels.
There's this sense
that, well, we
thought the Lord was
going to return soon,
because he promised.
He said he would come back.
But we're getting older.
We don't really know what's
going to happen exactly,
what the timing of all this is.
So we need to write this
material down because we're not
going to live forever.
It may outlive us.
And so they produced
the Gospels.
And then you have
a lot of letters,
again, written to existing
Christian communities,
churches all over
the Mediterranean.
And those get grouped into
the New Testament, as well.
>>NOORY: Michael, you travel
all around the country talking
about biblical prophecy.
So Michael, who exactly
wrote The New Testament?
>>HEISER: Well,
the New Testament
has a number of authors.
Probably it's fair to say
a little over half of it
would be from the hand
of the apostle Paul.
He's the one who writes most of
the letters back to churches.
And again, those were
intended to be circulated.
We actually know
that from the content
of a few of those letters.
He actually asked that
they be passed around.
Peter wrote a couple.
John wrote a couple.
The Gospels, of course,
have four different authors.
And John, who wrote
one of the Gospels,
is also the author of
the Book of Revelation.
>>NOORY: So they
write these Gospels.
Who consolidates
them and combines
them to make this book
called the New Testament?
>>HEISER: Right.
It's actually an interesting
historical question
because there's a
modern myth about this.
The modern myth is that
Emperor Constantine
decided which books were going
to go in the New Testament.
That's a misnomer because
at the Council of Nicaea--
which, again,
Constantine was part
of getting that thing to
be held-- what Constantine
actually asked was that, hey,
you religious authorities now,
you need to quit talking
about all this material, all
these books.
You need to put it together.
And I want 50 copies of it--
>>NOORY: To give to my friends.
>>HEISER: Right.
I want it distributed
through the empire.
So it puts them in a pickle.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>HEISER: Because now
they have to decide,
how are we going to do this?
>>NOORY: And is
Jesus already gone?
>>HEISER: Jesus is already gone.
This is in the 300s AD.
So this is considerably
after the fact.
>>NOORY: Well, most of
the apostles are gone.
They're all gone.
>>HEISER: Yeah.
You've had all this
material circulating
in the early
Christian communities.
>>NOORY: It's in written form?
>>HEISER: It's in written form.
And Constantine, again,
when he issues this order,
it's not like you can say,
well, that's a hard job to do.
Or we don't really
want to do it.
Or it's going to cause argument.
No, you have to do it
because he's the emperor.
>>NOORY: That's right.
Or off with your head.
>>HEISER: At his command, they
have to start making decisions.
And so what they decided
to do was they take
a really minimalist approach.
They say, what are the
books that basically
every Christian community
and tradition accepts?
That was the easy path.
And it makes some sense, too.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HEISER: Now, you get a Gospel
like Thomas-- which is not
in the collection-- the
reason Thomas is not,
is it was not accepted
really anywhere as having
the same status as Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John.
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>HEISER: It's a mystery,
because all the Gospel
of Thomas is--
>>NOORY: He was Doubting
Thomas, wasn't he?
>>HEISER: Yeah.
That's the namesake of it.
It's not really a gospel.
In other words, it doesn't
have stories of Jesus.
So that might be, again, part
of the reason why was excluded.
The Gospel of Thomas is really
a collection of sayings,
like proverbs, this pithy,
short, little sayings.
>>NOORY: They found it boring.
They didn't want to put it in.
>>HEISER: And it doesn't
resemble the others.
So even in the East--
where the Gospel of Thomas
is thought to have originated
by Gnostic scholars--
even in the East you
don't have it accepted.
And we know that
because there was
a man named Tatian who created
a harmony of the Gospels.
Because it's like the
life in Christ in stereo.
He said, well, I want
to put them all together
and see how it reads.
He only uses the
four that we know.
He doesn't even use
Thomas, even though it
was very current in his
own area in his own time.
So again, for whatever
reason, Thomas
was never put, again,
at the same level,
even in those communities.
>>NOORY: Are his
books out there?
>>HEISER: Well, the
Gospel of Thomas is known.
Again, it has been discovered.
It has plenty of
manuscript evidence for it.
So that one is known.
But I mean, that's just part
of the decision-making process,
their approach.
And I think they
did the smart thing.
>>NOORY: He was left on
the editing room floor.
>>HEISER: Yeah.
It's like, what are
the ones that are not
going to cause arguments?
And we'll call that our
core collection, our canon.
And that's how they
produce the New Testament.
Now, theologically, again,
a theologian discussing this
would say something like,
well, the Holy Spirit
was part of that process.
And he led them to recognize
which ones belonged in there.
And you actually have that as an
important part of the dialogue.
We think of a book like Enoch.
There were a handful of
people in the early church--
>>NOORY: And that's
Old Testament, right?
>>HEISER: Well, it deals
with the Old Testament
character, Enoch.
But it actually
has this crossover.
But it's like amplified
Old Testament.
But there were people who
thought that Enoch should
be included in the canon.
Peter and Jude
both quote from it.
And it's the rest of
the story of Genesis.
It was a very popular book.
So you actually have discussions
among early church thinkers
about what to do with Enoch.
And one of them actually
says, well, I've
been defending this
book all my life.
And apparently the
spirit of God is going
to work with the majority.
I'm really the only
one still alive
that's defending this
thing, so that's OK with me.
So there was this sense that
providentially God would direct
their decision-making into what
books belonged and what books
didn't.
And so finally, Constantine
pushes the button and says,
look.
Enough of the debate.
Enough of the talk.
Enough of the writing.
Enough of the commentary.
I want the New
Testament on my desk
in short order, so to speak.
>>NOORY: In two weeks.
>>HEISER: He forces them
to make the decision.
He's not the one who does it.
They do.
>>NOORY: These
Gospels that were put
in together by the apostles--
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
Paul-- were they all
self-contained on their own?
I mean, did each one talk
about basically the same things
with a different
perspective, based
on the apostle who wrote it?
Or did they just have
different stories
all through the whole Gospels?
>>HEISER: Well, of the
four gospels-- Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John--
there are three-- Matthew,
Mark and Luke-- that are
referred to as the Synoptic
Gospels.
And that is to see together.
Those books are, to
a very high degree,
covering the same
events Maybe not--
>>NOORY: With a
different perspective.
>>HEISER: Different perspective.
Maybe not in the same order,
there'll be some differences.
And a lot of the differences are
due to who their audience was,
what they want to say, what
they don't want to say,
what the purpose
of the occasion is.
>>NOORY: I mean,
do they all talk
about the birth of Jesus
and that evolution?
>>HEISER: Interestingly
enough, you only
get the birth of-- the Magi
story-- in only one of them.
>>NOORY: Ah.
Why?
>>HEISER: Now, John--
well, John is 90% unique.
I mean, 90% of what's in
John isn't in the others.
So it really depends on what
message they're really after.
The birth story with
Jesus, you get most
of this information in Matthew.
Why?
Because Matthew is the
Gospel that is most Jewish.
For instance, Matthew
will use terms
that the other Gospels
have to define.
Matthew never does it.
Hebrew terms, Jewish terms,
customs and that-- he never
explains anything.
So you can tell that
his audience is Jews
because he doesn't have
to do any of this stuff.
And so he includes the birth.
>>NOORY: Weren't
they all Jewish?
>>HEISER: They're not.
Luke was a Gentile.
Mark was Jewish.
But when Matthew is
tracking on certain things,
he wants to take his
readers from the birth all
the way through
the Resurrection,
and specifically to establish
that this person was
the correct person
in the line of David.
He's the fulfillment
of the Davidic
Covenant of the Old Testament.
And he is the King of the Jews.
And so he presents
a Jewish messiah.
Luke does less than that because
he's writing to a friend.
He tells us in the very
first couple verses.
>>NOORY: Yet the Jews
don't accept that.
>>HEISER: They don't.
They don't.
Many of them did, because
the early church comes out
of Judaism.
>>NOORY: I've interviewed
on the radio show who
believed Jesus was the Messiah.
>>HEISER: Yeah, you have
Messianic congregations today.
>>NOORY: But there's
not a lot of them.
>>HEISER: Right.
There isn't.
But Luke is doing something
entirely different.
He's writing to a guy
named Theophilus--
>>NOORY: But if you were going
to look at and read the Gospels
generally, would you
see the same story,
the story of the devil trying
to cut a deal with Jesus,
and he rejected him, and things.
Would they all be there?
>>HEISER: All three of
the Synoptics have that.
Again, they don't-- I often
get the question about, well,
this is a little-- we can't
really accept the Gospels
because they disagree
on this or that point.
And my view is that's
why you should accept it.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HEISER: Because
what would you think
if I handed you three gospels,
and you read them all,
and they're all the same.
>>NOORY: All the same.
>>HEISER: I mean,
I'm a professor.
When I get papers--
>>NOORY: Plagiarism.
>>HEISER: Right.
When I get two papers that
look exactly the same,
I know something's wrong.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>HEISER: But you don't--
>>NOORY: And they sat
next to each other.
>>HEISER: Right.
And you don't have
that with the Gospels.
You have them track through
a lot of the same events.
But again, even the
ordering can be different.
And a lot of it's stylistic,
or rhetorical, again,
audience-aimed.
>>NOORY: Michael, then I
want to get into Revelation.
But are you convinced
that the stories
they have written
about Jesus are all
factual based on the
things you've read?
>>HEISER: Mm-hmm.
I think they are.
I'm not a person that would
believe Jesus never existed
or anything like that.
Even atheist
scholars-- Bart Ehrman
is a very famous scholar.
>>NOORY: Will say
he was-- he existed.
>>HEISER: Right.
And they'll say--
well, Bart Ehrman
will say that he
certainly existed.
He disagrees with the Zeitgeist
community and things like that.
So it's not really
an idea that's
tied to a specific tradition
to say that Jesus existed.
When you ask about, well,
what about all the stories?
Are they factually correct?
Then you're going to have
a difference of opinion.
I don't think there's any
story about Jesus that has ever
been demonstrated to be false.
It's an odd question
because what you'd need then
is you need other
versions to compare to.
And you don't have a whole lot.
You have the Gospels, and you
have other stories about Jesus
that circulated.
But again, when it came time
to-- at Constantine's behest--
saying look, the Christians
around the world,
what are the ones, the
stories-- again, the Gospels.
We'll just narrow the
question to the Gospels.
What are the ones where
everyone embraces this?
Everyone thinks they're genuine.
They're not disqualified--
>>NOORY: Or stories.
>>HEISER: Right.
Because of contrary information.
Which are those?
And those are the ones we have.
And so you do get
this-- in that way
you get an external validation.
>>NOORY: How do
you think they knew
about the Immaculate Conception
and the birth in the manger?
Where do you think
that came from?
>>HEISER: I think since
Mary survives, of course,
after Jesus, and she travels.
Again, in the Gospels
you have indications
that she was part
of the group that
followed Jesus around and
listened to what he was saying.
After the Resurrection
and the ascension,
she's part of the
community there.
I think at that point she
tells them, essentially,
you guys know a lot about
what happened to Jesus.
You lived with him for
three and a half years.
You traveled around.
But I've got some other things
to tell you that he may not
have shared with you.
So she's an eyewitness
to some of these events
that they are not privy to.
But she's part of the group.
And so they worked themselves
into the Gospel accounts
really, I think, through her.
That's the most
natural thing to do.
>>NOORY: The Book of
Revelation, written by John
when he was sent off to
an island, wasn't he?
>>HEISER: Mm-hmm.
He was exiled to Patmos.
>>NOORY: And he claims
what happened to him?
>>HEISER: Well, he claims that,
right there at the beginning
of the book, the heavens open.
He sees the risen Christ.
And basically Jesus says,
I want you to write down,
I'm the first and the last.
And I want you write what things
that you're going to see that
happen now.
>>NOORY: The Alpha
and the Omega.
>>HEISER: Right.
Now and in the hereafter.
And so that initiates a series
of visions, some of which
have Jesus in them.
Others are directed by angels.
You have these
angelic mediators.
And John will say that.
Well, after this happened,
then I was met by an angel.
Or an angel showed me.
Or an angel did this or that.
And so he is taken-- either
mentally transported.
I don't know if you can really
argue that he was physically
moved into the presence
of God or whatever,
because you have a lot
of vision language there.
But he sees these things.
Then he's told specifically,
write these things down.
And at some points he'll
ask, what does it mean?
Sometimes he's told;
sometimes he's not.
>>NOORY: How do you interpret
the Book of Revelation?
>>HEISER: Well,
it's really common
nowadays-- this is actually
a trickier question
than you may realize, George.
>>NOORY: Maybe I'm
trying to trick you.
>>HEISER: No, you're
not trying to trick me.
It's only tricky because there's
so much argument about it.
>>NOORY: There is, yeah.
>>HEISER: Most people
will look at Revelation
and assume that you
read it chronologically,
in a linear fashion.
Here's the start.
Here's the finish.
I think there's some of that.
But I also think there's
something that scholars
call recapitulation.
And what that means is you'll
have events described, and then
the same four, five, six
events will be described again.
In other words, you have
these circular recountings
of things that happened.
>>NOORY: At different times?
>>HEISER: Right.
And so--
>>NOORY: It's like "Star Wars."
>>HEISER: You might
have something
happen in chapter
12 that mirrors
something that happened
in chapter four, something
like that.
So that happens, too.
>>NOORY: Why does
it jump around?
>>HEISER: I think
a lot of it has
to do with-- there is a
chronological sense that there
are things that are
going to happen on Earth.
And we're dealing with
space, time there.
And things happen
in linear fashion.
So those things
have to be laid out.
But I think the repetition
occurs just for that reason,
that these things are reinforced
by virtue of the repeated
cycles.
And when the cycles sometimes
differ a little bit,
you get a little bit of
a nuance from one symbol
to the next that rounds out
the picture of something.
You might be wondering, well,
how do I interpret these four
symbols here?
Well, if you get four
things over here,
it might give you a little
bit of a different angle
to approach it from.
So you start to
develop a picture
by virtue of the repetition.
So I think that's
part of the reason.
>>NOORY: Is it truly Mark
the end of the beginning?
Or is it the
beginning of the end?
Revelation.
>>HEISER: I think both.
>>NOORY: There's some
scary things in there.
>>HEISER: Yeah.
I think there's some sense--
there's some truth to both
of those statements.
Because the Book of Revelation
ends with a global Eden.
So in that sense, it's
taking you back to Genesis.
So In the broad sweep
of biblical theology,
what the whole thing--
>>NOORY: We're here, here, here.
>>HEISER: Yeah.
What the entirety of it
is about-- if you ask,
what's the Bible
about-- initially
it's about God wanting a family.
God already has a non-human
family, with the sons of God.
We're told in Job Chapter
38 that they're around
before the creation.
God wants a family
that's embodied.
He wants a human family.
He creates Earth so that
they can live there.
He's going to live
there with them.
And we call this place Eden.
And when God has
a family, he wants
them to work with him
to make the whole world
like this wonderful
place that we call Eden.
And he wants both of his
families to live together.
>>NOORY: Far from it right now.
>>HEISER: Far, far from it.
Because we know the story,
the Edenic story, the serpent,
the whole bit.
Evil enters the world.
It gets magnified in
Genesis 6, the sons of God,
the whole flood, all that stuff.
So the rest of the
Bible is about restoring
this thing that was lost.
And eventually you
get to the end.
And that's how it ends.
>>NOORY: It's a glorious end.
>>HEISER: Right.
It's a glorious end.
>>NOORY: But to get
there is horrendous.
>>HEISER: And people
ask a lot about, well,
why-- if there's a
god, why is there
all this evil in the world?
We have to understand--
>>NOORY: The tragedy,
everything else.
>>HEISER: It relates
to the whole imaging
concept in Genesis chapter 1.
And by the way, this
is why it's plural.
Let us create
humankind in our image.
God is speaking to
his heavenly host.
So in some way we're like God.
But were also like
them, and they're
like us, and all
this sort of thing.
We share divine attributes.
One of those
attributes is freedom.
In other words, if we
did not have free will,
we could not image God.
It would be impossible.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HEISER: So God decides,
I'm going to take-- again,
God knows what the
result is going to be.
But he deems the risk preferable
to not having humans at all.
So he knows they're
going to fall.
He knows they're
going to be corrupt.
He knows they're going to
use their free will to commit
acts of evil.
And sure, God could
eliminate that.
But it means
eliminating humanity.
John 3:16--
>>NOORY: And free will.
>>HEISER: Right.
"For God so loved the world."
God loves humanity.
He loves the world.
Again, it's why we have
the whole story of Christ,
and the crucifixion, the
Resurrection, and all that.
But God cannot eliminate
free will without eliminating
people.
And because he
loves people, he is
willing to let this
thing run its course.
But--
>>NOORY: However sad it may be.
>>HEISER: However sad it may be.
But what we miss, when
we look at the evil,
we miss God's agents.
We miss the fact that God does
send divine beings in our path
to help us, or save
us, or correct us.
God uses his human imagers-- us.
What we do and say
to people matters.
Because everything
you do and say
has a ripple effect in
someone else's life.
And then that life will have a
ripple effect in another life.
And so this is actually
the biblical picture
of how God works.
I'm not going to
eliminate humans-- I could
do that-- because I love them.
What I'm going to
do is I'm going
to work within this
thing I've created--
the space-time continuum,
however you want to picture it.
And I'm going to
make sure that it
ends the way I want it to end.
We often use this chess
master illustration.
And I don't think
everything's predestinated.
There are biblical reasons why.
We could get into that.
But to me, what's
more impressive--
if you and I are playing chess,
and I'm God, and I look at you,
and I say George, you're
going to lose this chess
match because I've
predetermined every move.
>>NOORY: In nine moves.
>>HEISER: OK, that
sounds impressive.
But this is more impressive.
If I said to you, George, it
doesn't matter where you move.
It's up to you.
I'm still going to win.
I will have my way.
That is a lot more impressive.
>>NOORY: That is.
It's more dramatic.
>>HEISER: Than just
predestinating it.
>>NOORY: So you
think the apocalypse,
the sign of the beast,
the Antichrist--
all those things we need to
do to get to this new Eden--
are going to happen?
>>HEISER: Yeah.
I do think-- I believe
in a personal Antichrist.
>>NOORY: We may be in it now.
>>HEISER: We might be.
Again, since I don't
read Revelation
as a completely
linear document, it
does create that possibility.
There is signage.
This whole concept,
again, of astral prophecy.
There are significant things
going on in the New Testament.
Probably the question you
run into all the time is,
the signage that was associated
with the birth of Jesus,
is that going to repeat?
And does that mean anything in
the scope of biblical prophecy?
Well, the first
question is easy.
Yeah, it's going to repeat.
You can just plug it into
an astronomy program.
It's more than the star
in Matthew chapter 2.
I personally believe-- and
there are other scholars
who believe this.
And I'll confess, I'm
in the minority here.
>>NOORY: That's happened before.
>>HEISER: Right.
But I'm not alone.
That Revelation 12 tells
us what the Magi saw
in real, considerable detail.
Because if you
read Revelation 12,
we have a woman with 12
stars around her head.
The sun is in her midst.
The moon is at her feet.
There's a dragon ready to
devour the child that she's
going to give birth to.
Well, if you interpret
that astrally,
and you plug that into
an astronomy program,
you can calculate when
those things happen.
And, I think, not
coincidentally,
if you do this--
and I've done it.
I'm not the only one
that's done this.
There are other
events specifically
that explain the
star in Matthew 2.
There is a conjunction
of Regulus,
which is the king star
in ancient thinking
because it's the biggest star.
>>NOORY: Right.
And programming software
will show you that, right?
>>HEISER: It'll show you.
And there's Jupiter.
Regulus and Jupiter, the
king planet, conjoin.
And that creates
retrograde motion,
which is why the star appeared
to move, and all this stuff.
>>NOORY: Is that the
Star of Bethlehem?
>>HEISER: I think it is.
>>NOORY: I think you're right.
>>HEISER: But here's the kicker.
If you go beyond the
star in Matthew 2,
and you add all those other
elements from Revelation 12 in,
there is a very
tiny window of time
when that could occur--
all those things
as they're described.
There's a 90-minute window
that actually gives us
the birth of Jesus.
And again, the spooky
part is it turns out
to be September 11, 3 BC.
>>NOORY: No!
>>HEISER: It is.
>>NOORY: Not December 24?
>>HEISER: Not Dec-- no.
That's a Roman--
part of the Roman
Empire in correlating the
calendars and all that stuff.
September 11, 3 BC
is also Tishri 1
in the Jewish calendar, the
original Jewish calendar.
Jewish calendar-- how they
have half a dozen calendars.
But the one that was used
before the Passover event.
Tishri 1 is Rosh Hashanah
in that calendar.
And it was the day
traditionally in Old Testament
when the inauguration of a new
king's reign would be held.
So the imagery is just perfect.
>>NOORY: Is it well known
now that 911 may have
been the birth date of Jesus?
>>HEISER: I don't
think it's well known.
But I when I say it,
people get spooked by it
because of the 9/11 thing.
>>NOORY: Of Course.
>>HEISER: So the
question comes up.
Well, again, is all this
concatenation of events,
is that going to happen again?
Again, that's easy because all
you could do is plug it in,
and you get dates for when
that's going to happen again.
The bigger question, though,
is does it mean anything?
You don't have a specific verse
in the New Testament that says,
hey, at the time of
the end, all this stuff
that you saw happen back here
is going to happen again.
And that'll be the sign
of the Second Coming.
You don't have a
verse that says that.
So if you're going
to try to relate
all of that with the sign of
the Son of Man in Matthew 24,
associated with
the Second Coming,
that is your speculation.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HEISER: Because you
don't actually have-- you
don't even have the sign of
the Son of Man identified.
Is it that stuff
from Revelation 12?
Is it something
altogether different?
Is the sign of the Son of Man
the event, the return itself?
Or is it something celestial?
We don't have any
of that information.
I think that's
actually deliberate,
because I'm a believer
in Messianic prophecy--
specifically Messianic prophecy
being deliberately cryptic.
>>NOORY: What do you
think the 666 means?
>>HEISER: 666, I think, is about
astral, specifically solar,
imagery.
It's an odd-- that's
probably an answer that's
going to surprise a
lot of your listeners.
But it goes back to,
in the Old Testament,
this thing called the
abomination of desolation,
spoken of by Daniel the prophet.
Jesus mentions this.
Well, that prophecy
was considered
to have been fulfilled at least
once before Jesus gets here.
Because that is a
title-- the abomination
which makes desolate--
that is applied
to Zeus, who was the god whose
image Antiochus Epiphanes set
up in the temple in the
intertestamental period.
It was a horrific
event to Jews-- lots
of bloodshed, persecution.
He installs a pagan idol in
the temple, and it's this guy.
Well, we know that wasn't the
whole story, because Jesus
references the same passage.
And Jesus lived
after that event.
So it's something
still out there.
But if you take a
correlation there,
then it has something to do with
Zeus, who is the solar deity.
And there were Christians
trying to figure out, well,
what's the connection?
Here's just one trajectory.
Have you ever heard
of magic squares?
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>HEISER: OK.
The magic square
for the sun is 666
because you've got all the rows,
the four rows of the squares,
add up to 111 and
the two diagonals.
You get 666.
So people would
look at that and go,
there's got to be
something going on here.
Early church fathers took
the word "teton", which
is reference to the Titans.
Zeus was a Titan.
By gematry, it adds up to 666.
Is that a coincidence?
Well, who knows?
You have these pointers.
>>NOORY: See, and
I don't think--
there are no coincidences.
Everything is meant.
Michael, we're
almost out of time.
>>HEISER: I think it has
something to do with all that.
>>NOORY: But fascinating work.
Where do people peruse
some of the things you do?
How do they find you?
>>HEISER: My home
page is drmsh.com--
doctor and then my
initials, MSH-- .com.
So if you go there, you
can get pretty much access
to anything I do.
I'd recommend if people are
interested in astral prophecy,
to check out "The
Portent," which
is my sequel to "The Facade."
I do a lot of astral
prophecy stuff in that book.
So if you're interested
in that, I would get that.
>>NOORY: Super.
Michael, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>HEISER: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Biblical prophecy.
What has happened?
What could happen?
A lot of it determines what
we do with our own free will.
Think about that for a moment.
I'm George Noory, and
this is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]